---
layout: post
title: Using git at work on a Windows network drive
date: 2011-09-22 20:41:10 UTC
updated: 2011-09-22 20:41:10 UTC
comments: false
categories: git
---

Rarely do I program without using some sort of version control.  I've been using git locally on my Windows machine at work to manage some scripts and I use a network drive as my remote in case my machine dies.  Here are the steps I used to get that up and running.<br /><br />You will need to install git (<a href="http://code.google.com/p/msysgit/">try msysgit windows installer</a>) and learn about git (<a href="http://gitimmersion.com/">try git immersion</a>) before setting up your remote repository.<br /><br /><br />Create a folder that will hold your git repository on your network share.<br />I have a mapped drive on g: and my repository is g:\scripts so that is what my examples will use.<br /><br />From a cmd prompt change to your mapped drive.<br /><span style="font-family: courier new; font-weight: bold;">&gt; cd g:</span><br /><br />Then cd into your soon to be git repository.<br /><span style="font-family: courier new; font-weight: bold;">&gt; cd scripts</span><br /><br />Then create an empty git repository.  If you do not use the --bare option, you will have issues so don't leave that out.<br /><span style="font-weight: bold; font-family: courier new;">&gt; git init --bare</span><br /><br />Now if you don't have a local git repository yet, then you can clone your new repository wherever you like by navigating back to your local drive.<br /><span style="font-family: courier new; font-weight: bold;">&gt; c:</span><span style="font-family: courier new; font-weight: bold;"><br />&gt; cd work/scripts</span><br /><span style="font-family: courier new; font-weight: bold;">&gt; git clone file://g:\scripts</span> <br />(UNC paths also work  file://\\server\share\username\scripts)<br /><br />When you clone, you automatically get a remote called "origin" and you can push to the server for safe keeping any time you make changes locally.<br /><span style="font-family: courier new; font-weight: bold;">&gt; git push origin master</span><br /><br />If you already have a git repository and you just want to push out to the shared drive then you can do this from within your local git manged project.<br /><span style="font-weight: bold; font-family: courier new;">&gt; git remote add origin file://g:\scripts</span><br /><span style="font-family: courier new; font-weight: bold;">&gt; git push origin master</span>